PPTT-2753 Added a `User ID` guide (#659)
PiwikPRO/PPMS-PublicDocs: data_collection/web/guides.rst

.. todo:: Explain how to change page URL and title for virtual page views or link to SPA instructions page.

User ID
-------

> User ID is an additional session dimension in yours analytics data. When set you will be able to aggregate data by this dimension. You can use Tag Manger, default Piwik Pro tag to setup `User ID` without editing any JS code. To set it manually follow this guide.

Author: I will add how other products user it, yet I thought that such description is for higher level articles.

> User ID is an additional session dimension in yours analytics data. When set you will be able to aggregate data by this dimension. You can use Tag Manger, default Piwik Pro tag to setup `User ID` without editing any JS code. To set it manually follow this guide.

Reviewer: If we have articles that explain it, we can only mention it here and link to them.

> User ID is an additional session dimension in yours analytics data. When set you will be able to aggregate data by this dimension. You can use Tag Manger, default Piwik Pro tag to setup `User ID` without editing any JS code. To set it manually follow this guide.

Reviewer 2: I would refrain from using word `dimension` or `session dimension` as it may bring confusion with custom dimensions.

Another thing is about Tag Manager usage- this is hugely problematic cross-team issue. Overall as RevOps we don't advise to use User ID in Tag Manager, as customers are usually unable to configure it properly. They are not taking into account, that as effect of such a configuration, `setUserId` is invoked with each tracker execution. And when a situation comes that the User ID variable is not set (due to unavailability of element for example), user ID is cleared in such session. We already has such situations. My proposition for solving this was to change TM implementation but for now it's as it was.

> User ID is an additional session dimension in yours analytics data. When set you will be able to aggregate data by this dimension. You can use Tag Manger, default Piwik Pro tag to setup `User ID` without editing any JS code. To set it manually follow this guide.

Reviewer 2: @RomanSek https://help.piwik.pro/support/getting-started/userid/

> User ID is an additional session dimension in yours analytics data. When set you will be able to aggregate data by this dimension. You can use Tag Manger, default Piwik Pro tag to setup `User ID` without editing any JS code. To set it manually follow this guide.

Author: - Changed dimension to parameter
- Added link to help center article
- Removed word `dimension`
- Removed reference to TagManager

To set up `User ID` dimension add a call to :ref:`setUserId<jtc-api-setUserId>` to your tracking code:

.. code-block:: javascript

    _paq.push(["setUserId", "user-name@example.com"]);

.. note ::

>     #. `User ID` can't be longer than 1024 bytes, it will be 1024 characters unless you use only ASCII characters. When using Unicode check the length of user identifier, so you won't exceed 1024 bytes.

Reviewer 3: I think this information should not be in a guide but in lower level -> function description.

Author: It is requirement of our CPP, this is special dimension and it is better to warn user early than later looking up for issues "why I cant find users by their ID". It is an edge case, but our customers surprised us more than once.

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest to add important info: invoking `setUserId` won't send any info to the tracker on its own. It will be sent with next subsequent event. Do we want to include info that it can be submitted with ping?

Author: - Added info that you have send `User ID` with additional request
- Left info about `User ID` length

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    #. `User ID` can't be longer than 1024 bytes. It will be 1024 characters if you use only ASCII characters, but Unicode characters may require more bytes per character, so you should make sure that Unicode identifier cut down to 1024 bytes is still unique.
```

    #. `User ID` should be a uniquie value for each user. Otherwise metrics for different users might be merged in the reports.
    #. Usually a `User ID` value is an user email, because this is the identifier that users use to log in to a website and it fulfils above requirements.

> It is a good practice to remove value of `User ID`, when the user logs out. Otherwise `User ID` value might affect session of other users. To remove `User ID` value call :ref:`resetUserId<jtc-api-resetUserId>`.

Reviewer 2: `value might affect session of other users.` + if they are sharing the device

Author: added

.. code-block:: javascript

    _paq.push(["resetUserId"]);

Full abstract example, might look like this:

> .. code-block:: javascript

Author: :blush:

.. todo:: Explain how to change page URL and title for virtual page views or link to SPA instructions page.

User ID
-------

`User ID` is an additional parameter, that allows you to aggregate data. When set you will be 
able to search through sessions by this parameter, fiter reports through it or create Multi attribution reports
using `User ID`. You can :ref:`learn more about User ID here<https://help.piwik.pro/support/getting-started/userid/>` 

> To set up `USer ID` with your JavaScript Tracking snippet follow this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up `User ID` with your JavaScript Tracking snippet follow this guide.
```

Author: fixd

    #. `User ID` can't be longer than 1024 bytes, it will be 1024 characters unless you use only ASCII characters. When using Unicode check the length of user identifier, so you won't exceed 1024 bytes.
    #. `User ID` should be a uniquie value for each user. Otherwise metrics for different users might be merged in the reports.
    #. Usually a `User ID` value is an user email, because this is the identifier that users use to log in to a website and it fulfils above requirements.

It is a good practice to remove value of `User ID`, when the user logs out. Otherwise `User ID` value might affect session of other users, if they share the same device. To remove `User ID` value call :ref:`resetUserId<jtc-api-resetUserId>`.

.. code-block:: javascript

    _paq.push(["resetUserId"]);

Full abstract example, might look like this:

.. code-block:: javascript

    var user = getUserData();
    if (user.isLogged) {
      _paq.push(["setUserId", user.login]);
    } else {
      _paq.push(["resetUserId"]);
    }

.. warning::

>     Do not unset `User ID` byt setting it to some seemingly empty value, like ``_paq.push(["setUserId", " "]);`` or ``_paq.push(["setUserId", ""]);``. This way some value might be still send to Collecting & Processing Pipeline. What seems to be an empty value to a human, might be not true for a machine. Only using ``resetUserId`` will guarantee that no `User ID` value will be send.

Reviewer: Internally it is set to empty string ([ref](https://github.com/PiwikPRO/PPMS-Trucker-JS/blob/master/src/piwik.js#L4768)) and we [check](https://github.com/PiwikPRO/PPMS-Trucker-JS/blob/master/src/piwik.js#L3208) for empty value in code before using it.
```
this.resetUserId = function() {
    configUserId = '';
};
```

it's internal implementation but I expect that we'll always check for string values.
If we want to leave this warning, then maybe this will work better:

```suggestion
    Do not reset `User ID` by setting it to arbitrary empty value, like ``_paq.push(["setUserId", " "]);`` or ``_paq.push(["setUserId", ""]);``. While some of those examples may work in current version, only using ``resetUserId`` will guarantee that `User ID` value will be correctly removed in the future.
```

Author: Not like this, we want users to use `resetUserId`, not to try to set empty value for themselves. We already had cases that user set some space or invisible unicode and told us that `User ID` do not work. Even if in reality `resetUserId` sets it t empty string, we want customers to use this very function to turn off `uid` parameter.
